---
layout: post
title: "How I Got Into Graphics Programming"
author: "Grace Zhu"
categories: blog
tags: [blog,graphics]
image: unity_cyber.jpg
---

From unemployed graduate\* to dream job\*\* at AAA company in 2 years
  
*\* only technically unemployed before I went back to my old job  
\*\* dream jobs do not exist. Probably a topic for a future post.*

## Getting Into the Industry

as graduate, you're basically one of thousands, unless you have a personal recommendation or really stand out in some way (that is not necessarily related to the field you're trying to break into), no one cares about you. recruiters will ghost you. location matters. I didn't get a job in the industry when I graduated. 

My point is not to discourage anyone but to offer some perspective - if you want it, keep working at it. Do what you need to do to make rent/live well in the meantime. Keep informed of industry trends, and supply/demand for the field/position you're targeting so you can have realistic expectations. Pivot if it makes sense to do so. Try not to close off/rule out options that still get you closer to where you want to be, even if it's not 100% The Thing.

Oh yeah and once you get your first job at a big company recruiters are suddenly Super Interested in you, like in those Axe Body Spray ads before and after, but that's a topic for another time. 

## Learning Graphics

aka "so you want to be a graphics programmer?"

I had one semester of college graphics. even if it's 90% theory and dinosaur age tech with course material that's decade(s) old, it was kind of cool making a raytracer (almost) from scratch. However, it didn't really end up helping me that much. It was somehow too basic and too difficult at the same time. So if you didn't take any graphics in college, don't worry about it. 

test the waters before diving in head first. play around with things that require minimal setup. unity's shader graph. shadertoy. 
if math comes naturally to you and you understand formulas after seeing them once, stop reading this and go invent some rendering techniques. For the rest of us, an intuitive understanding of lighting helps a ton before taking the plunge into <brdf equation> look for stuff like "rendering for artists" or "pbr for artists" - they're likely to use less technical terms and have more pictures (no shade, simplicity is under-appreciated!). 

not bored yet? you're on the right track then. play around with stuff other people have done. once you gain some understanding, try to replicate cool existing effects without copying. 
watch some video presentations of papers. if they're starting to make sense, read the papers. my approach is first looking at all the pretty pictures, then looking up any key terms i don't know, then finally reading the paper sentence by sentence. until I get tired and just scroll through the pictures again. Still working on that. 

reach out to people. graphics programmers have a pretty active community on twitter, and so many graphics programmers at AAA companies have blog posts about your favourite game that are as fun as they are insightful. 

at some point you are going to have to review some math, and maybe learn some new stuff. if you took any kind of engineering or CS program, you should have basic linear algebra and calculus which will get you through most of it. if you didn't have those, demand a refund. Otherwise, you'll at least have to understand vectors/matrices and trigonometry to start, and the rest can be learned as needed. 

## Not An Expert

I'm only like 3 months into my current job so take my advice with a grain of salt. I can only offer one perspective on how to get your foot in the door, and have nothing of value to say about what to do after :) But even getting your foot in the door can be a big step requiring a lot of investment, and future graphics programmers shouldn't be deterred just because they've heard about how difficult it is. I really believe the perceived difficulty of graphics discourages many talented and potential great graphics programmers from entering and advancing the field, especially if you're not cut from the same mold as most present-day leading graphics researchers. 

I'm immensely grateful to the graphics programmers who have helped and continue to help me in my career by generously sharing their time and knowledge. 
