---
layout: post
title: "How I Got Into Graphics Programming"
author: "Grace Zhu"
categories: blog
tags: [blog,graphics]
image: unity_cyber.jpg
---

From unemployed graduate\* to dream job\*\* at AAA company in 2 years
  
*\* only technically unemployed before I went back to my old job  
\*\* dream jobs do not exist. Probably a topic for a future post.*

## Brief Intro

I was definitely one of those people who thought you needed a master's phd and all the advanced math to do all the 'smart people stuff' that is graphics, and i didn't really bother with it or make it a serious goal for a while. Once I did I found that people were overwhelming helpful and supportive in this sub-field. Oddly enough it was realizing that other people weren't that interested in it that made me think 'maybe this is for me' after all. 

I don't know if my experience is necessarily representative, but I did graduate fairly recently and feel that my experience is at least fresh and relevant, so I'm hoping to share that and hopefully encourage anyone who's interested but intimidated by graphics to pursue it. 

## Getting Into the Industry

I didn't get a job in the industry when I graduated. as graduate, you're basically one of thousands, unless you have a personal recommendation or really stand out in some way, no one cares about you. recruiters will ghost you even if they say to reach out to them, to your face :). 

location matters a lot. In a smaller city or a city with less of a games presence, you're one of at least dozens if not hundreds of graduates all applying to the same few companies. This is really difficult and highly chance-based if said companies are like, 50-300 people each. You would have a far easier time if you studied in a city with top companies in the 500-3000 range. You can apply to those as well, but why would they hire a new grad with relocation when it's much cheaper and easier to hire locally? If you're not in the right time and place, you'll get there eventually, but just know the odds are stacked against you (and that's okay. keep persevering). 

My point is not to discourage anyone but to offer some perspective - if you want it, keep working at it. Do what you need to do to make rent/live well in the meantime. Keep informed of industry trends, and supply/demand for the field/position you're targeting so you can have realistic expectations. Pivot if it makes sense to do so. Try not to close off/rule out options that still get you closer to where you want to be, even if it's not 100% The Thing.

Oh yeah and once you get your first job at a big company recruiters are suddenly Super Interested in you, like in those Axe Body Spray ads before and after. It can feel a bit sad/inhumane that you're not worth their time unless you've already 'proven' yourself, the only thing I can say is that it's okay to feel hurt by rejection, but to not take it personally and not let that keep you from future opportunities. 

## Learning Graphics Programming

I had one semester of college graphics. even if it's 90% theory and dinosaur age tech with course material that's decade(s) old, it was kind of cool making a raytracer (almost) from scratch. However, it didn't really end up helping me that much. It was somehow too basic and too difficult at the same time. So if you didn't take any graphics in college, don't worry about it. 

test the waters before diving in head first. play around with things that require minimal setup. unity's shader graph. shadertoy. 
if math comes naturally to you and you understand formulas after seeing them once, stop reading this and go invent some new rendering techniques. For the rest of us, an intuitive understanding of lighting helps a ton before taking the plunge into <brdf equation> look for stuff like "rendering for artists" or "pbr for artists" - they're likely to use less technical terms and have more pictures (no shade, simplicity is under-appreciated!). Unity Manual, Unreal Documentation, Substance blgo posts , are likely to have. 

not bored yet? you're on the right track then. play around with stuff other people have done. once you gain some understanding, try to replicate cool existing effects without copying. 

watch some video presentations of papers. if they're starting to make sense, read the papers. my approach is first looking at all the pretty pictures, then looking up any key terms i don't know, then finally reading the paper sentence by sentence. until I get tired and just scroll through the pictures again. Still working on that. IF you're up for the challenge, implementing an academic paper is a great project to show off to potential interviewers. 

reach out to people. graphics programmers have a pretty active community on twitter, and so many graphics programmers at AAA companies have blog posts about your favourite game that are as fun as they are insightful. 

at some point you are going to have to review some math, and maybe learn some new stuff. if you took any kind of engineering or CS program, you should have basic linear algebra and calculus which will get you through most of it. if you didn't have those, demand a refund. Otherwise, you'll at least have to understand vectors/matrices and trigonometry to start, and the rest can be learned as needed. 

## The Journey

I meant to finish this blog post when I was 3 months into my job, but I'm now 6 months in with a decent amount of experience, and having talked to quite a few of my fellow graphics programmers. Landing that position is just the beginning, in fact, I've learned so much in the past 6 months aboug graphics than all of my studies at university and on my own combined. The more I learn, the more I feel like there is to learn, and that's okay - it's what keeps me interested and excited about this field. 

I really believe the perceived difficulty of graphics discourages many talented and potential great graphics programmers from entering and advancing the field, especially if you're not cut from the same mold as most present-day leading graphics researchers. 

I'm immensely grateful to the graphics programmers who have helped and continue to help me in my career by generously sharing their time and knowledge. 

If you would like to know more or have any questions about graphics programming, my DMs are open :)
